Now let us look at a program for checking if a number is Armstrong number or not.
So what does it mean by Armstrong?
First we will learn that.
Then we'll see the procedure in that program.
Let us see what is an Armstrong number?
See if I have a number 153.
Take out the digits of a number.
What are the digits?
If we take out, we have already seen that we can get the digits from the last.
Okay.
No problem.
For three, then five.
Then one.
Take the cubes of these digits.
Cubic.
Then are there cubes?
So one cube is one only and five cubes.
125 and three cubes.
27.
So how much this is.
125 140, 52 153.
Again, we got a number 153.
See some of the cubes of the digits of a number is equal to number itself.
So that is Carlos Armstrong, number one, five three digits are taken and the cubes are taken added.
We get 153 some of the cubes of digits of a number.
If they are equal to a number, then it is an Armstrong number.
Now, how to do this?
We need the digits.
Don't we know how to get digit digits?
Yes, we have already seen it in the previous video.
So for 153, also, we can take out the digits.
If you remember this, I have changed it for 153 153 more by ten we get three divided by 1015, then
more by ten we get five.
Divide more by ten one then divide we can get it.
Then what we have to do, we have to find some of the cubes.
Some of the cubes.
So we will have one more variable sum that is initially equal to zero, then zero plus first time three
cubes.
So I'll write down three cubes like this.
This will be three cube.
The next is three cube plus five cubes, right?
So three three cube plus five cube and we get total 152 here I'll write like that then 152 plus one
cube is 153 and a number became zero stop so we can take the sum and here I can write down the statement.
Sum, assign, sum plus.
The three and five.
And one way we are getting it here are.
So this is our cube.
Our cube.
So, yes, in the same procedure where we were displaying the digits, now we will add the cubes of
those digits and some variable and we get the number.
Now check the number that you got.
153 is the same as the original number.
Where is the original number and what it has became?
Oh, this has become zero.
So this is the problem in this one.
The original number, you are dividing it by ten.
So it is becoming zero finally.
So you should preserve that number.
So let us take some more variable m inside that we will keep this value 153 Then check with this m right.
153 that sum is 153 Is it same as this?
M Yes, at the same.
So it's an Armstrong number.
So we have seen the procedure.
Now let us look at the flow chart.
So it is the flow chart.
Take a number, some is initialized with zero and just said that our number is becoming zero, so we
should preserve it in some other variable.
So in I have taken this is the loop already you are familiar with, right in the previous video we have
discussed now I was printing after this so I don't have to print, I'm writing some assign some plus
R cube.
So I have to take the cube of a digit and add it.
To sum that step I have to add then once the loop ends, see, I have to show it separately because
there's is a loop, right?
If it is false, it comes here and check if man same are same if same same strong otherwise not and
strong and stop.
So I have to check the number whether some is equal to that m original number.
So same thing I will write down here.
See we need some.
Also we need one more variable m also.
So after taking a variable I will make m assign nn value will keep it here.
The procedure is same already we have written this logic while number is greater than zero and we were
finding out first more that is last digit and the more the ten then n was getting divided by ten.
Now one more extra work we have to do that is some assign some plus r cubed, so r into r into r three
times.
This is the procedure.
This is Luke.
Steps repeated.
Then once we come out of the loop, check if M is equal to someone.
So outside the loop, check here if sum is equal to M.
If so, see out as Armstrong.
Right.
Armstrong say it's Armstrong.
Otherwise, else she'll say Not Armstrong.
So that's all.
At last we have to say return zero.
So outside the loop here.
So this is a program for finding numbers, Armstrong, or not?
Simple logic.
In the previous program, we have just added one statement.
That is, we are finding the sum of the cubes.
That's all.
So write this program by yourself.
There is a coding exercise for this one, so complete that and also write on the program by yourself
in coding exercise.
Just you have to write on this part.
You don't have to take input, right?
Since your you read the description, you'll find out only the logic you have to write on.
Now, in the next video, again, the topic is based on the same logic.
Okay.
So I'll keep it as it is.
This I will not change.
The number will also be same.
Now let us look at the next program.